---
layout: post
title:  Big data
category: jekyll
description: NA.
tags: Blog
---

With the rapid development of information technology, great changes have taken place in people's thinking process, and working mode. 
Big data, as one of the products of the modern-day information technology, have already seeping through our lives. If you pull up Tiwtter, the entire right colon named “what’s new” is based on big data. If you go to McDonald and find that your beloved McSpicy is not in the menu anymore? Yeah, blame big data. However, It doesn’t seem like big data has made it’s way into the class room and I’ve always wondered how we can better apply it to the field of education. But before we do that, we need to understand what IS big data.

> The definition of big data is data that contains greater variety, arriving in increasing volumes and with more velocity. This is also known as the three Vs. --[Oracle](https://www.oracle.com/uk/big-data/what-is-big-data/)

To put it simple, big data is data that comes in great volume and variety (types) and are usually quickly received and processed and then acted upon. With these specialties, big data can be used to predict complex human behavior, climate change, and so much more.

There’s an old Chinese saying: _A teacher should teach students with accordance to their aptitude._ 

However, in modern society, combining the fact that a teacher is simultaneously teaching more than 40 children and that society (in other words parents) only wants the quickest reflect of a child’s progress in terms of grades, a teacher simply cannot cope with the amount of work he or she is assigned. This is where big data technologies comes in, it can analyze data related to students' actual learning situation and can then design targeted teaching plans to help teacher tackle specific problem for each student and all of these can happen within a second (literally).

Moreover, schools are, and I mean seriously, rampant with data that reflects our children’s mental and physical status. Regardless, these data are rarely gathered and analyzed. Think about it, if we can gather only a drop of these data from school, decision makers will be able to make informed decision in real time (instead of taking several years when everything has changed) as the society changes. (I’m not going to talk about privacy in as it is a very serious social question that is under heavy debate, maybe one day we’ll talk about it!)

And since we are living in a rapidly developing world, big data can also be used to track down new teaching materials (i.e., ideas/things that was recently invented/discovered). This could greatly enhance the teacher’s ability to keep up with the society and help students to be more competitive in the society.

Now, it’s time to discuss the how. With the widespread application of hand-held wearable electronic devices, students have more ways of going online then you can possibly imagine! (okay, that’s an exaggeration, you CAN imagine…). They regularly use computers to go online, they post stuff in social media sites, they use internet to study and explore the world while expressing their own opinions and ideas. All of these information can be used in big data to understand them and since these data are open and readily accessible, we can consider them “surface data”. There are more data that can only be reflected if they are doing a test or an interview, we call these data “submerge data”. Only when we combine these data, we can get a full picture of the mental and physical status of our students. (Again, privacy is a big topic here but I’m not goint to talk about it)

Overall, I think big data has the potential to achieve much more in the field of education.

